Write up Content section (#37)
directus/docs: content/3.content/1.explore.md

---
description: Learn to filter, layout, batch edit and more with collections in the collection explorer.
---

# Collection Explorer

The content module allows users to browse, filter, and search for items held in collections. When users navigate into viewing single items, they use :product-link{product="editor"}. Each page contains data from a single collection, but can display related fields for each item.

To open the collection explorer, click on the content module on the left hand side of the page.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF EXPLORE -->

## Filtering Items

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF FILTERS -->

You can create custom filters to display items that fulfill certain criteria.

Click on :icon{name="material-symbols:filter-list"} at the top of the page to create a filter. You can then select a field to filter by and click on the criterion to tweak what should pass for that item to be filtered.

### And / Or Groups

> `AND` groups give the option to filter for items that meet all of several criteria. On the other hand, `OR` groups filter for items that meet any one of several criteria.

Reviewer: I'd mention here that to be part of the group, it needs to be indented under the AND or OR.

### Dynamic Variables

<!-- TODO: Image -->

> The following dynamic variables are built into Directus to add extra functionality to filters: `$CURRENT_USER`, `$CURRENT_ROLE`, `$CURRENT_ROLES`, `$CURRENT_POLICIES`, `$NOW` and `$NOW(<adjustment>)`.

Reviewer: Go through and explain what each one is. I'd also be clear that CURRENT_ROLES and CURRENT_POLICIES are arrays

## Layouts

> You can [select a layout](/content/layouts) for displaying your collection. Note that restrictions will apply depending on your collection's [data model](/data-modeling/collections).

Reviewer: I'd briefly explain more what these are. I know that it's a whole page, but I don't think this helps people understand them

## Batch Editing

<!-- TODO: Image -->

> By selecting more than one item in the explorer will allow you to click on :icon{name="material-symbols:filter-list} and edit several items' fields at once.

Reviewer: Mention that this is to the same value.

## Bookmarks

<!-- TODO: Image of explorer with bookmarks -->

> Bookmarks are custom layouts that can be displayed for different views of your collections.

Reviewer: Not quite. They specifically include more than layouts - also config, visible fields, sorting, filtering, search.

---
description: Learn to filter, layout, batch edit and more with collections in the collection explorer.
---

# Collection Explorer

The content module allows users to browse, filter, and search for items held in collections. When users navigate into viewing single items, they use :product-link{product="editor"}. Each page contains data from a single collection, but can display related fields for each item.

To open the collection explorer, click on the content module on the left hand side of the page.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF EXPLORE -->

## Filtering Items

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF FILTERS -->

You can create custom filters to display items that fulfill certain criteria.

Click on :icon{name="material-symbols:filter-list"} at the top of the page to create a filter. You can then select a field to filter by and click on the criterion to tweak what should pass for that item to be filtered.

### And / Or Groups

`AND` groups give the option to filter for items that meet all of several criteria. On the other hand, `OR` groups filter for items that meet any one of several criteria.

> In order to be grouped into the `AND` or `OR` groups, filters must be indented into them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for filters to be included in `AND` or `OR` groups, filters must be indented below them in the filter UI.
```
